[Music]
what is the lifecycle of the moss long
long years ago a special group of plants
with a sense of adventure began making
the journey from water to land what were
these plants moss there are thousands of
known species of mosses but the question
is what plant group does Moss belong to
bryophytes include the various mosses
and live rods that are found commonly
growing in moist shaded areas in the
hills bryophytes also called amphibians
of the plant kingdom because these
plants can live on soil but are
dependent on water for sexual
reproduction the plant body of Rio finds
is more differentiated and that of algae
it is talus like and prostrate or erect
and attached to the substratum by
unicellular or multicellular rhizoids
they lack true roots stems or leaves
however they may possess root like leaf
like or stem like structures mosses are
small flowerless plants that typically
grow in dense green clumps or mats often
in damp or shady locations let's learn
more about moss and its lifecycle the
predominant stage of the life cycle of
the moss is the gametophyte which
consists of two stages
number one pro to nama and number two
leafy stage the first stage is the
proton Emma stage which develops
directly from a spore it is a creeping
green branched and frequently
filamentous stage the second stage is
the leafy stage which develops from the
secondary proton Emma as a lateral bud
they consist of uprights Landa axis
bearing spirally arranged leaves they
attach to the soil through multicellular
and branched rhizoids this stage bears
the sex organs
the sex organs are multicellular the
male sex organ is cold and 3dm they
produced a flagellate and tara Zoids the
female sex organ called archegonium is
flask shaped and produces a single egg
the Antero swords are released into the
water where they come in contact with
archegonium the entero soit fuses with
the egg to produce the Zygons i gods do
not undergo reduction division
immediately they produce a multicellular
body called sporophyte the sporophyte is
not free living but is attached to the
photosynthetic gametophyte and derives
nourishment from it some cells of the
sporophyte and the goal reduction
division or meiosis to produce haploid
spores these spores germinate to produce
gametophyte let's solve some important
questions from medical exams question 1
gametophyte 'ok stage is dominant in
number 1 bryophyte ER number 2 Teredo
fighter number 3 gymnosperm or number 4
angiosperm this question was asked in
Punjabi MT 2010 solution the main plant
body of the bryophyte is haploid it
produces gametes hence is called
gametophyte
hence option 1 is correct
question tooth in bryophytes and
thyroids are number one with flagellate
number two uni flagellate number three
some time by flagellates and sometimes
UNIF legislates this question was asked
in CPM tea 2012 solution in mosses
antheridium is male sex organ which
produces the flagellate male gametes
cold and thyroid hence option 1 is
correct this video concludes about the
life cycle of the mas students must
remember the two stages of the life
cycle to answer question in the exam
please like share and comment on the
video and don't forget to subscribe to
our YouTube channel for more interesting
and educational videos to earn while you
learn download extra class app from
Google Play Store and get rewarded for
study